# Swing-Predictor
Python model predicting swing vs no swing. 

After accessing a large pitch outcome data set, I became interested in predicting swing or no swing based on several pitch datapoints. 
My first step in completing this project was selecting the appropriate model to run. Because I knew the output need to be binary (0 for no swing, 1 for swing), I decided on training a logistic regression model. 
After deciding on logistic regression, I started my coding process in python. After importing the necessary packages and data set, I created a function to split the data into a training set and test set.  After many iterations, I found that the combination of ball/strike count, outs, spin rate, extension, plate height, vertical and horizontal break, vertical approach angle, and x55 were the most effective in predicting swing or no swing. 
I realized at this point, I needed to properly clean my data. I dropped the null values in the data set. The data was then split based on a .2 ratio. The splitting of data was done to allow for the model to be trained, while also removing 20% of the data to be used to test the accuracy of the model and serve as a benchmark for selecting the most predictive features.  I then removed the “is_swing” column to serve as the output of my training mode. The selected features where then scaled. 
The next step was conducting the logistic regression.  The input for the model was the scaled features and the output was the “is_swing” training data. The swing/no swing predictions were then created based on the test features that we had previously separated from the data. My logistic regression model was found to predict swing or no swing accurately 63% of the time. 
After creating the model, I read in the test data csv. To manipulate the data into a form which I could run through the model, I completed similar steps to clean and scale the test data. After running the cleaned and scaled test data through the logistic regression model, I appended the predications to the empty “is_swing” column in the test data excel csv. 
If I had more time and resources, I would have conducted a more through examinations of the selected features to train the model on. It would have been interesting factoring in batter data such as attack angle, bat path, bat speed in the model.  
